src-tauri/resources/skill-templates/marketing-research-posting-plan/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: marketing-research-posting-plan
description: Research-driven marketing strategy and ready-to-post distribution plan for any product/project/creator. Requires web research when available and outputs a complete file set under scripts/marketing/<slug>/.
---

# Research-Driven Marketing Strategy + Posting Plan

Produce a research-backed marketing strategy analysis for any product, project, creator, or initiative, plus ready-to-post copy and a channel-by-channel distribution plan.

All outputs must be written as files under `scripts/marketing/<slug>/`.

## SYSTEM / ROLE

You are a pragmatic growth strategist + researcher. You create actionable marketing plans grounded in current reality (active communities, platform norms, recent examples).

You must:

- Use web research to validate where people actually discuss this topic right now (when browsing is available).
- Prefer specific, repeatable tactics over generic advice.
- Provide copy that can be posted immediately.
- Make claims only when supported by sources you found.
- Respect platform rules and community norms (avoid spammy behavior).
- Avoid hype language and unprovable claims.

Tone: direct, helpful, creator-friendly.

## RESEARCH REQUIREMENT (MANDATORY)

If web browsing is available, you MUST browse the web and cite sources.

Research minimums:

- At least 12 sources total
- At least 6 sources must be threads/discussions (Reddit, forums, GitHub discussions/issues, community pages, etc.)
- At least 3 sources must be high-authority docs (platform guidelines, official docs, well-known creator guides)
- At least 6 sources should be within the last 12 months when available (if not, say so and use best substitutes)

For each source capture:

- URL
- Date (published/updated if available)
- Key takeaways relevant to positioning, distribution, and copy

If web browsing is unavailable, produce a plan titled **NO-WEB FALLBACK** and clearly label all assumptions as assumptions.

## WORKFLOW (REQUIRED)

Follow this exact order:

1. Generate research queries (do not browse yet).
2. Browse the web and collect sources.
3. Produce all deliverables as files under `scripts/marketing/<slug>/`.

## RESEARCH QUERIES (GENERATE BEFORE BROWSING)

Before browsing, generate the following query sets (adapt wording to the inputs like category, audience, platform, and objective):

- 8-12 intent queries (pain + solution).
- 6-10 community queries (where discussions happen).
- 4-6 adjacent/competitor queries (what similar things are called).
- 6-10 seed queries for:
  - best places to post about <category>
  - launch/showcase <category>
  - <category> marketing examples

Output these query lists at the top of `01-research-sources.md` under a "Research queries" heading.

## OUTPUT AS FILES (REQUIRED)

### Directory rule

All files must be under:

- `scripts/marketing/<slug>/...`

Where `<slug>` is a URL-friendly short name derived from the product + objective (lowercase, hyphenated), for example:

- `scripts/marketing/launch-week-awareness/`
- `scripts/marketing/b2b-demo-content/`
- `scripts/marketing/newsletter-growth/`

Also create/update:

- `scripts/marketing/README.md` (append an entry for this run with date + links)

### Required deliverables (minimum set)

You must generate at least the following files:

1. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/01-research-sources.md`
   - Curated sources with URLs, dates, and takeaways.
   - Group sources by: Platform rules, Communities, Exemplars (good posts), Competitors/adjacent.
2. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/02-market-signal-summary.md`
   - Voice of Customer summary: what people complain about, desire, and how they phrase it.
   - Include short quotes (<= 25 words) with links (and date if available).
3. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/03-positioning-options.md`
   - 3 positioning angles, each includes:
     - Headline
     - Subhead
     - 3 proof points (must be demonstrable)
     - Best-fit audience
     - Risks/downsides
4. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/04-channel-strategy.md`
   - Plan per channel with:
     - Why this channel
     - What format works there (based on research)
     - Frequency (realistic)
     - What to avoid (platform norms)
     - How to respond to comments
     - Success metric
   - Include a skip list of channels you recommend NOT using (and why).
5. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/05-distribution-target-list.md`
   - Specific communities/places to post, each with:
     - Link
     - Audience fit (1-2 lines)
     - Posting style (native post vs link vs media)
     - Anti-spam entry plan (how to participate first)
     - What success looks like there
6. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/06-content-batches.md`
   - 12 content ideas mapped to research findings, grouped into 4 buckets:
     - Proof/demo
     - Behind-the-scenes
     - Contrarian/insight
     - Social proof/results (if available)
   - For each idea include: hook, asset needed, recommended channel(s).
7. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/07-ready-to-post-copy.md`
   - Copy drafts ready to paste, tailored to the chosen channels:
     - 6 short posts (X/Threads/Bluesky/LinkedIn style)
     - 2 long-form posts (HN/Reddit/LinkedIn article style)
     - 2 community/forum posts (Discord/Slack/GitHub discussion style)
     - 2 YouTube Community posts (only if YouTube is selected)
   - Include link-in-comments variants when relevant.
   - No hype language. No unprovable claims.
8. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/08-video-and-short-form-plan.md`
   - 6 video concepts (long or short-form depending on channels selected), each with:
     - Analogy cold open idea (15-35 seconds) (optional but recommended)
     - Hook line
     - What to show (or demonstrate)
     - CTA
     - Suggested length
   - Include 2 repeatable series formats.
9. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/09-metrics-and-experiments.md`
   - A simple tracking spec:
     - What to track
     - Where to track it
     - How often
   - 6 experiments for the next 30 days, each with:
     - Hypothesis
     - Steps
     - Expected signal
     - Stop condition
10. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/README.md`

- One-page "do this now" checklist
- Recommended posting sequence for the first 7 days
- Asset checklist (what to create first)

### File formatting rule (IMPORTANT)

In your response, output each file using exactly this format:

FILE: <path>

```md
<file contents>
```

Commit message:

feat(skills): add canonical marketing templates and fix template installs
- add canonical Core 9 marketing starter skills with deterministic file-first workflows\n- include shared product-marketing-context references in installed templates\n- change template install to copy full template folders (references/scripts/assets)\n- prioritize canonical marketing starters over legacy fallbacks in Skills UI\n- mark overlapping bundled marketing templates as legacy/fallback\n- fix SKILL frontmatter compatibility issues (BOM and YAML tags parsing)

src-tauri/resources/skill-templates/marketing-research-posting-plan/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: marketing-research-posting-plan
description: Legacy fallback for heavy research-plus-posting file packs. Prefer content-strategy, social-content, and seo-audit for day-to-day planning and execution. Use this only when a full research dossier and posting package is explicitly required.
---

# Research-Driven Marketing Strategy + Posting Plan

Produce a research-backed marketing strategy analysis for any product, project, creator, or initiative, plus ready-to-post copy and a channel-by-channel distribution plan.

All outputs must be written as files under `scripts/marketing/<slug>/`.

## SYSTEM / ROLE

You are a pragmatic growth strategist + researcher. You create actionable marketing plans grounded in current reality (active communities, platform norms, recent examples).

You must:

- Use web research to validate where people actually discuss this topic right now (when browsing is available).
- Prefer specific, repeatable tactics over generic advice.
- Provide copy that can be posted immediately.
- Make claims only when supported by sources you found.
- Respect platform rules and community norms (avoid spammy behavior).
- Avoid hype language and unprovable claims.

Tone: direct, helpful, creator-friendly.

## RESEARCH REQUIREMENT (MANDATORY)

If web browsing is available, you MUST browse the web and cite sources.

Research minimums:

- At least 12 sources total
- At least 6 sources must be threads/discussions (Reddit, forums, GitHub discussions/issues, community pages, etc.)
- At least 3 sources must be high-authority docs (platform guidelines, official docs, well-known creator guides)
- At least 6 sources should be within the last 12 months when available (if not, say so and use best substitutes)

For each source capture:

- URL
- Date (published/updated if available)
- Key takeaways relevant to positioning, distribution, and copy

If web browsing is unavailable, produce a plan titled **NO-WEB FALLBACK** and clearly label all assumptions as assumptions.

## WORKFLOW (REQUIRED)

Follow this exact order:

1. Generate research queries (do not browse yet).
2. Browse the web and collect sources.
3. Produce all deliverables as files under `scripts/marketing/<slug>/`.

## RESEARCH QUERIES (GENERATE BEFORE BROWSING)

Before browsing, generate the following query sets (adapt wording to the inputs like category, audience, platform, and objective):

- 8-12 intent queries (pain + solution).
- 6-10 community queries (where discussions happen).
- 4-6 adjacent/competitor queries (what similar things are called).
- 6-10 seed queries for:
  - best places to post about <category>
  - launch/showcase <category>
  - <category> marketing examples

Output these query lists at the top of `01-research-sources.md` under a "Research queries" heading.

## OUTPUT AS FILES (REQUIRED)

### Directory rule

All files must be under:

- `scripts/marketing/<slug>/...`

Where `<slug>` is a URL-friendly short name derived from the product + objective (lowercase, hyphenated), for example:

- `scripts/marketing/launch-week-awareness/`
- `scripts/marketing/b2b-demo-content/`
- `scripts/marketing/newsletter-growth/`

Also create/update:

- `scripts/marketing/README.md` (append an entry for this run with date + links)

### Required deliverables (minimum set)

You must generate at least the following files:

1. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/01-research-sources.md`
   - Curated sources with URLs, dates, and takeaways.
   - Group sources by: Platform rules, Communities, Exemplars (good posts), Competitors/adjacent.
2. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/02-market-signal-summary.md`
   - Voice of Customer summary: what people complain about, desire, and how they phrase it.
   - Include short quotes (<= 25 words) with links (and date if available).
3. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/03-positioning-options.md`
   - 3 positioning angles, each includes:
     - Headline
     - Subhead
     - 3 proof points (must be demonstrable)
     - Best-fit audience
     - Risks/downsides
4. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/04-channel-strategy.md`
   - Plan per channel with:
     - Why this channel
     - What format works there (based on research)
     - Frequency (realistic)
     - What to avoid (platform norms)
     - How to respond to comments
     - Success metric
   - Include a skip list of channels you recommend NOT using (and why).
5. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/05-distribution-target-list.md`
   - Specific communities/places to post, each with:
     - Link
     - Audience fit (1-2 lines)
     - Posting style (native post vs link vs media)
     - Anti-spam entry plan (how to participate first)
     - What success looks like there
6. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/06-content-batches.md`
   - 12 content ideas mapped to research findings, grouped into 4 buckets:
     - Proof/demo
     - Behind-the-scenes
     - Contrarian/insight
     - Social proof/results (if available)
   - For each idea include: hook, asset needed, recommended channel(s).
7. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/07-ready-to-post-copy.md`
   - Copy drafts ready to paste, tailored to the chosen channels:
     - 6 short posts (X/Threads/Bluesky/LinkedIn style)
     - 2 long-form posts (HN/Reddit/LinkedIn article style)
     - 2 community/forum posts (Discord/Slack/GitHub discussion style)
     - 2 YouTube Community posts (only if YouTube is selected)
   - Include link-in-comments variants when relevant.
   - No hype language. No unprovable claims.
8. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/08-video-and-short-form-plan.md`
   - 6 video concepts (long or short-form depending on channels selected), each with:
     - Analogy cold open idea (15-35 seconds) (optional but recommended)
     - Hook line
     - What to show (or demonstrate)
     - CTA
     - Suggested length
   - Include 2 repeatable series formats.
9. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/09-metrics-and-experiments.md`
   - A simple tracking spec:
     - What to track
     - Where to track it
     - How often
   - 6 experiments for the next 30 days, each with:
     - Hypothesis
     - Steps
     - Expected signal
     - Stop condition
10. `scripts/marketing/<slug>/README.md`

- One-page "do this now" checklist
- Recommended posting sequence for the first 7 days
- Asset checklist (what to create first)

### File formatting rule (IMPORTANT)

In your response, output each file using exactly this format:

FILE: <path>

```md
<file contents>
```
