README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src=".github/assets/logo.png" alt="Tandem Logo" width="500">
  
  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem/actions/workflows/ci.yml"><img src="https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem/actions/workflows/release.yml"><img src="https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg" alt="Release"></a>
    <a href="LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg" alt="License: MIT"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/sponsors/frumu-ai"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/sponsor-30363D?style=for-the-badge&logo=GitHub-Sponsors&logoColor=#EA4AAA" alt="Sponsor"></a>
  </p>
</div>

A local-first, privacy-focused AI workspace. Your AI coworker that runs entirely on your machine.

<div align="center">
  <img src=".github/assets/app.png" alt="Tandem AI Workspace" width="90%">
</div>

Inspired by [Claude Cowork](https://claude.com/blog/cowork-research-preview), but open source and provider-agnostic.

## Why Tandem?

**🔒 Privacy First**: Unlike cloud-based AI tools, Tandem runs on your machine. Your code, documents, and API keys never touch our servers because we don't have any.

**💰 Bring Your Own Key (BYOK)**: Use any LLM provider - don't get locked into one vendor. Switch between OpenRouter, Anthropic, OpenAI, or run models locally with Ollama.

**🛡️ Zero Trust**: Every file operation requires explicit approval. AI agents are powerful but Tandem treats them as "untrusted contractors" with supervised access.

**🌐 True Cross-Platform**: Native apps for Windows, macOS (Intel & Apple Silicon), and Linux. No Electron bloat - built on Tauri for fast, lightweight performance.

**📖 Open Source**: MIT licensed. Review the code, contribute features, or fork it for your needs.

## Developer Superpowers for Everyone

In 2024, AI coding tools like Cursor and Claude Code transformed how developers work - letting them interact with entire codebases, automate complex tasks, and review changes before they happen.

**But why should only programmers have these capabilities?**

- Researchers need to synthesize hundreds of papers
- Writers need consistency across sprawling manuscripts
- Analysts need to cross-reference quarterly reports
- Administrators need to organize mountains of documents

Tandem brings the same transformative capabilities to everyone. Point it at any folder of files, and you get:

- **Folder-wide intelligence** - AI that understands your entire collection, not just one file
- **Multi-step automation** - Complex tasks broken into reviewable steps
- **Visual change review** - See exactly what will change before it happens
- **Complete undo** - Roll back any operation with one click

What Cursor did for developers, Tandem does for everyone.

## Features

### Core Capabilities

- **🔒 Zero telemetry** - No data leaves your machine except to your chosen LLM provider
- **🔄 Provider freedom** - Use OpenRouter, Anthropic, OpenAI, Ollama, or any OpenAI-compatible API
- **🛡️ Secure by design** - API keys stored in encrypted vault using AES-256-GCM, never in plaintext
- **🌐 Cross-platform** - Native installers for Windows, macOS (Intel & Apple Silicon), and Linux
- **👁️ Visual permissions** - Approve every file access and action with granular control
- **⏪ Full undo** - Rollback any AI operation with comprehensive operation journaling
- **🧠 Long-Term Memory** - Vector database stores codebase context and history for smarter answers
- **🧩 Skills System** - Import and manage custom AI capabilities and instructions
- **📋 Execution Planning** - Review and batch-approve multi-step AI operations before execution
- **🔄 Auto-updates** - Seamless updates with code-signed releases (when using installers)

### AI Agent Modes

Tandem supports multiple specialized agent modes powered by OpenCode:

- **💬 Chat Mode** - Interactive conversation with context-aware file operations
- **📝 Plan Mode** - Draft comprehensive implementation plans (`.md`) before executing changes
- **♾️ Ralph Loop** - Autonomous iterative loop that works until a task is verifiably complete
- **🔍 Ask Mode** - Read-only exploration and analysis without making changes
- **🐛 Debug Mode** - Systematic debugging with runtime evidence

### Project Management

- **📁 Multi-project support** - Manage multiple workspaces with separate contexts
- **🔐 Per-project permissions** - Fine-grained file access control
- **📊 Project switching** - Quick navigation between different codebases
- **💾 Persistent history** - Chat history saved per project

### Artifacts & Outputs

- **📊 HTML/Canvas** - Generate secure, interactive HTML dashboards and reports
- **📽️ Presentation Engine** - Export high-fidelity PPTX slides with theme support
- **📑 Markdown Reports** - Clean, formatted documents and plans

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 20+
- [Rust](https://rustup.rs/) 1.75+
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) (recommended) or npm

**Platform-specific:**

| Platform | Additional Requirements                                                                          |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Windows  | [Build Tools for Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)                   |
| macOS    | Xcode Command Line Tools: `xcode-select --install`                                               |
| Linux    | `libwebkit2gtk-4.1-dev`, `libappindicator3-dev`, `librsvg2-dev`, `build-essential`, `pkg-config` |

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem.git
   cd tandem
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

3. **Download the sidecar binary**

   ```bash
   pnpm run download-sidecar
   ```

   This fetches the OpenCode binary for your platform.

4. **Run in development mode**
   ```bash
   pnpm tauri dev
   ```

### Building for Production

If you want to build a distributable installer, run:

```bash
# Build for current platform
pnpm tauri build
```

**Note on Code Signing:**
Tandem uses Tauri's secure updater. If you are building the app for yourself, you will need to generate your own signing keys:

1. Generate keys: `pnpm tauri signer generate -w ./src-tauri/tandem.key`
2. Set environment variables:
   - `TAURI_SIGNING_PRIVATE_KEY`: The content of the `.key` file
   - `TAURI_SIGNING_PASSWORD`: The password you set during generation
3. Update the `pubkey` in `src-tauri/tauri.conf.json` with your new public key.

For more details, see the [Tauri signing documentation](https://tauri.app/v1/guides/distribution/updater/#signing-updates).

```bash
# Output locations:
# Windows: src-tauri/target/release/bundle/msi/
# macOS:   src-tauri/target/release/bundle/dmg/
# Linux:   src-tauri/target/release/bundle/appimage/
```

## Configuration

### Setting Up Your LLM Provider

Tandem supports multiple LLM providers. Configure them in Settings:

1. Launch Tandem
2. Click the **Settings** icon (gear) in the sidebar
3. Choose and configure your provider:

**Supported Providers:**

| Provider          | Description                                      | Get API Key                                                          |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **OpenRouter** ⭐ | Access 100+ models through one API (recommended) | [openrouter.ai/keys](https://openrouter.ai/keys)                     |
| **OpenCode Zen**  | Fast, cost-effective models optimized for coding | [opencode.ai/zen](https://opencode.ai/zen)                           |
| **Anthropic**     | Claude models (Sonnet, Opus, Haiku)              | [console.anthropic.com](https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys) |
| **OpenAI**        | GPT-4, GPT-3.5 and other OpenAI models           | [platform.openai.com](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)          |
| **Ollama**        | Run models locally (no API key needed)           | [Setup Guide](docs/OLLAMA_GUIDE.md)                                  |
| **Custom**        | Any OpenAI-compatible API endpoint               | Configure endpoint URL                                               |

4. Enter your API key - it's encrypted with AES-256-GCM and stored securely in the local vault
5. (Optional) Configure model preferences and endpoints

### Granting Folder Access

Tandem operates on a **zero-trust model** - it can only access folders you explicitly grant permission to:

1. Click **Projects** in the sidebar
2. Click **+ New Project** or **Select Workspace**
3. Choose a folder via the native file picker
4. Tandem can now read/write files in that folder (with your approval)

You can manage multiple projects and switch between them easily. Each project maintains its own:

- Chat history
- Permission settings
- File access scope

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Tandem Desktop App                        │
├─────────────────┬───────────────────┬───────────────────────┤
│  React Frontend │   Tauri Core      │  OpenCode Sidecar     │
│  (TypeScript)   │   (Rust)          │  (AI Agent Runtime)   │
│  - Modern UI    │   - Security      │  - Multi-mode agents  │
│  - File browser │   - Permissions   │  - Tool execution     │
│  - Chat interface│  - State mgmt    │  - Context awareness  │
├─────────────────┴───────────────────┴───────────────────────┤
│                SecureKeyStore (AES-256-GCM)                  │
│              Encrypted API keys • Secure vault               │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Tech Stack:**

- **Frontend**: React 18, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, Framer Motion
- **Backend**: Rust, Tauri 2.0
- **Agent Runtime**: OpenCode CLI (TypeScript-based sidecar)
- **Encryption**: AES-256-GCM for API key storage
- **IPC**: Tauri's secure command system

### Supervised Agent Pattern

Tandem treats the AI as an "untrusted contractor":

- All operations go through a **Tool Proxy**
- Write operations require **user approval**
- Full **operation journal** with undo capability
- **Circuit breaker** for resilience
- **Execution Planning** - Review all changes as a batch before applying

#### Plan Mode vs Immediate Mode

Tandem offers two modes for handling AI operations:

**Immediate Mode** (default):

- Approve each file change individually via toast notifications
- Good for quick, small changes
- Traditional AI assistant experience

**Plan Mode** (recommended for complex tasks):

- Toggle with the **"Plan Mode"** button in the chat header
- Uses OpenCode's native Plan agent
- AI proposes file operations that are staged for review
- All changes appear in the **Execution Plan panel** (bottom-right)
- Review diffs side-by-side before applying
- Remove unwanted operations
- Execute all approved changes with one click

**How to use Plan Mode:**

1. Click "Immediate" → "Plan Mode" toggle in header
2. Ask AI to make changes (e.g., "Refactor the auth system")
3. AI proposes operations → they appear in Execution Plan panel
4. Review diffs and operations
5. Click **"Execute Plan"** button in panel
6. All changes applied together + AI continues

The Execution Plan panel appears automatically when the AI proposes file changes in Plan Mode.

- Full undo support for the entire batch

Toggle between modes using the button in the chat header.

## Security

Tandem is built with security and privacy as core principles:

- **🔐 API keys**: Encrypted with AES-256-GCM in SecureKeyStore, never stored in plaintext
- **📁 File access**: Scoped to user-selected directories only - zero-trust model
- **🌐 Network**: Only connects to localhost (sidecar) + user-configured LLM endpoints
- **🚫 No telemetry**: Zero analytics, zero tracking, zero call home
- **✅ Code-signed releases**: All installers are signed for security (Windows, macOS)
- **🔒 Sandboxed**: Tauri security model with CSP and permission system
- **💾 Local-first**: All data stays on your machine unless sent to your LLM provider

**Denied by default:**

- `.env` files and environment variables
- `.pem`, `.key` files
- SSH keys (`.ssh/*`)
- Secrets folders
- Password databases

See [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md) for our complete security model and threat analysis.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

```bash
# Run lints
pnpm lint

# Run tests
pnpm test
cargo test

# Format code
pnpm format
cargo fmt
```

## Project Structure

```
tandem/
├── src/                    # React frontend
│   ├── components/         # UI components
│   ├── hooks/              # React hooks
│   └── lib/                # Utilities
├── src-tauri/              # Rust backend
│   ├── src/                # Rust source
│   ├── capabilities/       # Permission config
│   └── binaries/           # Sidecar (gitignored)
├── scripts/                # Build scripts
└── docs/                   # Documentation
```

## Roadmap

- [x] **Phase 1: Security Foundation** - Encrypted vault, permission system
- [x] **Phase 2: Sidecar Integration** - OpenCode agent runtime
- [x] **Phase 3: Glass UI** - Modern, polished interface
- [x] **Phase 4: BYOK Provider Routing** - Multi-provider support
- [x] **Phase 5: Agent Capabilities** - Multi-mode agents, execution planning
- [x] **Phase 6: Project Management** - Multi-workspace support
- [x] **Phase 7: Advanced Presentations** - PPTX export engine, theme mapping, explicit positioning
- [x] **Phase 8: Brand Evolution** - Rubik 900 typography, polished boot sequence
- [x] **Phase 9: Memory & Context** - Vector database integration (`sqlite-vec`)
- [x] **Phase 10: Skills System** - Importable agent skills and custom instructions
- [ ] **Phase 11: Browser Integration** - Web content access
- [ ] **Phase 12: Team Features** - Collaboration tools
- [ ] **Phase 13: Mobile Companion** - iOS/Android apps

See [docs/todo_specialists.md](docs/todo_specialists.md) for ideas on specialized AI assistants for non-technical users.

## Why Tandem?

For developers and teams who want:

- **Control**: Your data, your keys, your rules
- **Flexibility**: Any LLM provider, any model
- **Security**: Encrypted storage, sandboxed execution, zero telemetry
- **Transparency**: Open source, auditable code

For a deeper dive into Tandem's philosophy and how it compares to other tools, see our [Marketing Guide](docs/marketing.md).

## Support This Project

If Tandem saves you time or helps you keep your data private while using AI, consider [sponsoring development](https://github.com/sponsors/frumu-ai). Your support helps with:

- Cross-platform packaging and code signing
- Security hardening and privacy features
- Quality-of-life improvements and bug fixes
- Documentation and examples

[❤️ Become a Sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/frumu-ai)

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) - Use it however you want.

## Acknowledgments

- [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com) for the Cowork inspiration
- [Tauri](https://tauri.app) for the secure desktop framework
- [OpenCode](https://opencode.ai/) for the awesome opensource cli
- The open source community

---

**Tandem** - Your local-first AI coworker.

---

_Note: This codebase communicates with the OpenCode sidecar binary for AI agent capabilities and routes to various LLM providers (OpenRouter, Anthropic, OpenAI, Ollama, or custom APIs). All communication stays local except for LLM provider API calls._

Commit message:

feat(orchestrator): ship multi-agent orchestration with resilient control flows
Introduce Orchestrate mode end-to-end across Tauri backend and React UI, including run lifecycle commands, task DAG execution, budgets, persistence, and event streaming.

Key backend additions:

- add orchestrator module (types, scheduler, policy, budget tracker, engine, store, locks)

- wire orchestrator commands into app state and tauri command surface

- support pause/resume/cancel/restart semantics with persisted recovery

- support resume-model switching and provider normalization

- improve cancellation/pause behavior by aborting active generations and resetting stale in-progress tasks

- fix terminal-state handling when tasks fail max retries so runs do not stay executing indefinitely

- allow restart to reset failed/in-progress/blocked tasks for actual retry progress

- expand budget defaults and migration compatibility: iterations 200, subagent runs 500, wall time 60m

- upgrade legacy runs/configs on create/load/execute/restart and clear stale budget-exceeded flags when below new limits

UI and UX updates:

- add orchestrator panel, task board, budget meter, mode wiring, and event-driven runtime status

- move runtime controls to a more usable location and clarify button semantics

- show Resume Run for cancelled state and expose model selection for paused/cancelled resume flows

- show current run model and require explicit apply when selection changes

- fix control gating so Pause/Cancel are not shown when no tasks are running

- surface Retry Failed Tasks labeling for failed/failed-idle scenarios

Tests and docs:

- add/extend orchestrator concurrency and integration tests for cancellation races, pause/cancel interrupts, restart semantics, failed-terminal transitions, and resume-model guards

- add issue/plan docs and update release notes/changelog/readme for orchestrator feature set

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src=".github/assets/logo.png" alt="Tandem Logo" width="500">
  
  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem/actions/workflows/ci.yml"><img src="https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem/actions/workflows/release.yml"><img src="https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg" alt="Release"></a>
    <a href="LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg" alt="License: MIT"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/sponsors/frumu-ai"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/sponsor-30363D?style=for-the-badge&logo=GitHub-Sponsors&logoColor=#EA4AAA" alt="Sponsor"></a>
  </p>
</div>

A local-first, privacy-focused AI workspace. Your AI coworker that runs entirely on your machine.

<div align="center">
  <img src=".github/assets/app.png" alt="Tandem AI Workspace" width="90%">
</div>

Inspired by [Claude Cowork](https://claude.com/blog/cowork-research-preview), but open source and provider-agnostic.

## Why Tandem?

**🔒 Privacy First**: Unlike cloud-based AI tools, Tandem runs on your machine. Your code, documents, and API keys never touch our servers because we don't have any.

**💰 Bring Your Own Key (BYOK)**: Use any LLM provider - don't get locked into one vendor. Switch between OpenRouter, Anthropic, OpenAI, or run models locally with Ollama.

**🛡️ Zero Trust**: Every file operation requires explicit approval. AI agents are powerful but Tandem treats them as "untrusted contractors" with supervised access.

**🌐 True Cross-Platform**: Native apps for Windows, macOS (Intel & Apple Silicon), and Linux. No Electron bloat - built on Tauri for fast, lightweight performance.

**📖 Open Source**: MIT licensed. Review the code, contribute features, or fork it for your needs.

## Developer Superpowers for Everyone

In 2024, AI coding tools like Cursor and Claude Code transformed how developers work - letting them interact with entire codebases, automate complex tasks, and review changes before they happen.

**But why should only programmers have these capabilities?**

- Researchers need to synthesize hundreds of papers
- Writers need consistency across sprawling manuscripts
- Analysts need to cross-reference quarterly reports
- Administrators need to organize mountains of documents

Tandem brings the same transformative capabilities to everyone. Point it at any folder of files, and you get:

- **Folder-wide intelligence** - AI that understands your entire collection, not just one file
- **Multi-step automation** - Complex tasks broken into reviewable steps
- **Visual change review** - See exactly what will change before it happens
- **Complete undo** - Roll back any operation with one click

What Cursor did for developers, Tandem does for everyone.

## Features

### Core Capabilities

- **🔒 Zero telemetry** - No data leaves your machine except to your chosen LLM provider
- **🔄 Provider freedom** - Use OpenRouter, Anthropic, OpenAI, Ollama, or any OpenAI-compatible API
- **🛡️ Secure by design** - API keys stored in encrypted vault using AES-256-GCM, never in plaintext
- **🌐 Cross-platform** - Native installers for Windows, macOS (Intel & Apple Silicon), and Linux
- **👁️ Visual permissions** - Approve every file access and action with granular control
- **⏪ Full undo** - Rollback any AI operation with comprehensive operation journaling
- **🧠 Long-Term Memory** - Vector database stores codebase context and history for smarter answers
- **🧩 Skills System** - Import and manage custom AI capabilities and instructions
- **📋 Execution Planning** - Review and batch-approve multi-step AI operations before execution
- **🔄 Auto-updates** - Seamless updates with code-signed releases (when using installers)

### AI Agent Modes

Tandem supports multiple specialized agent modes powered by OpenCode:

- **💬 Chat Mode** - Interactive conversation with context-aware file operations
- **📝 Plan Mode** - Draft comprehensive implementation plans (`.md`) before executing changes
- **♾️ Ralph Loop** - Autonomous iterative loop that works until a task is verifiably complete
- **🔍 Ask Mode** - Read-only exploration and analysis without making changes
- **🐛 Debug Mode** - Systematic debugging with runtime evidence

### 🎼 Multi-Agent Orchestration

**New in v0.2.0**: Tandem now features a powerful Orchestration Mode that coordinates specialized sub-agents to solve complex problems.

<div align="center">
  <img src=".github/assets/app11.png" alt="Tandem Orchestration Mode" width="90%">
</div>

Instead of a single AI trying to do everything, Tandem builds a dependency graph of tasks and delegates them to:

- **Planner**: Architect your solution
- **Builder**: Write the code
- **Validator**: Verify the results

This supervised loop ensures complex features are implemented correctly with human-in-the-loop approval at every critical step.

### Project Management

- **📁 Multi-project support** - Manage multiple workspaces with separate contexts
- **🔐 Per-project permissions** - Fine-grained file access control
- **📊 Project switching** - Quick navigation between different codebases
- **💾 Persistent history** - Chat history saved per project

### Artifacts & Outputs

- **📊 HTML/Canvas** - Generate secure, interactive HTML dashboards and reports
- **📽️ Presentation Engine** - Export high-fidelity PPTX slides with theme support
- **📑 Markdown Reports** - Clean, formatted documents and plans

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 20+
- [Rust](https://rustup.rs/) 1.75+
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) (recommended) or npm

**Platform-specific:**

| Platform | Additional Requirements                                                                          |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Windows  | [Build Tools for Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)                   |
| macOS    | Xcode Command Line Tools: `xcode-select --install`                                               |
| Linux    | `libwebkit2gtk-4.1-dev`, `libappindicator3-dev`, `librsvg2-dev`, `build-essential`, `pkg-config` |

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/frumu-ai/tandem.git
   cd tandem
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

3. **Download the sidecar binary**

   ```bash
   pnpm run download-sidecar
   ```

   This fetches the OpenCode binary for your platform.

4. **Run in development mode**
   ```bash
   pnpm tauri dev
   ```

### Building for Production

If you want to build a distributable installer, run:

```bash
# Build for current platform
pnpm tauri build
```

**Note on Code Signing:**
Tandem uses Tauri's secure updater. If you are building the app for yourself, you will need to generate your own signing keys:

1. Generate keys: `pnpm tauri signer generate -w ./src-tauri/tandem.key`
2. Set environment variables:
   - `TAURI_SIGNING_PRIVATE_KEY`: The content of the `.key` file
   - `TAURI_SIGNING_PASSWORD`: The password you set during generation
3. Update the `pubkey` in `src-tauri/tauri.conf.json` with your new public key.

For more details, see the [Tauri signing documentation](https://tauri.app/v1/guides/distribution/updater/#signing-updates).

```bash
# Output locations:
# Windows: src-tauri/target/release/bundle/msi/
# macOS:   src-tauri/target/release/bundle/dmg/
# Linux:   src-tauri/target/release/bundle/appimage/
```

## Configuration

### Setting Up Your LLM Provider

Tandem supports multiple LLM providers. Configure them in Settings:

1. Launch Tandem
2. Click the **Settings** icon (gear) in the sidebar
3. Choose and configure your provider:

**Supported Providers:**

| Provider          | Description                                      | Get API Key                                                          |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **OpenRouter** ⭐ | Access 100+ models through one API (recommended) | [openrouter.ai/keys](https://openrouter.ai/keys)                     |
| **OpenCode Zen**  | Fast, cost-effective models optimized for coding | [opencode.ai/zen](https://opencode.ai/zen)                           |
| **Anthropic**     | Claude models (Sonnet, Opus, Haiku)              | [console.anthropic.com](https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys) |
| **OpenAI**        | GPT-4, GPT-3.5 and other OpenAI models           | [platform.openai.com](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)          |
| **Ollama**        | Run models locally (no API key needed)           | [Setup Guide](docs/OLLAMA_GUIDE.md)                                  |
| **Custom**        | Any OpenAI-compatible API endpoint               | Configure endpoint URL                                               |

4. Enter your API key - it's encrypted with AES-256-GCM and stored securely in the local vault
5. (Optional) Configure model preferences and endpoints

### Granting Folder Access

Tandem operates on a **zero-trust model** - it can only access folders you explicitly grant permission to:

1. Click **Projects** in the sidebar
2. Click **+ New Project** or **Select Workspace**
3. Choose a folder via the native file picker
4. Tandem can now read/write files in that folder (with your approval)

You can manage multiple projects and switch between them easily. Each project maintains its own:

- Chat history
- Permission settings
- File access scope

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Tandem Desktop App                        │
├─────────────────┬───────────────────┬───────────────────────┤
│  React Frontend │   Tauri Core      │  OpenCode Sidecar     │
│  (TypeScript)   │   (Rust)          │  (AI Agent Runtime)   │
│  - Modern UI    │   - Security      │  - Multi-mode agents  │
│  - File browser │   - Permissions   │  - Tool execution     │
│  - Chat interface│  - State mgmt    │  - Context awareness  │
├─────────────────┴───────────────────┴───────────────────────┤
│                SecureKeyStore (AES-256-GCM)                  │
│              Encrypted API keys • Secure vault               │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Tech Stack:**

- **Frontend**: React 18, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, Framer Motion
- **Backend**: Rust, Tauri 2.0
- **Agent Runtime**: OpenCode CLI (TypeScript-based sidecar)
- **Encryption**: AES-256-GCM for API key storage
- **IPC**: Tauri's secure command system

### Supervised Agent Pattern

Tandem treats the AI as an "untrusted contractor":

- All operations go through a **Tool Proxy**
- Write operations require **user approval**
- Full **operation journal** with undo capability
- **Circuit breaker** for resilience
- **Execution Planning** - Review all changes as a batch before applying

#### Plan Mode vs Immediate Mode

Tandem offers two modes for handling AI operations:

**Immediate Mode** (default):

- Approve each file change individually via toast notifications
- Good for quick, small changes
- Traditional AI assistant experience

**Plan Mode** (recommended for complex tasks):

- Toggle with the **"Plan Mode"** button in the chat header
- Uses OpenCode's native Plan agent
- AI proposes file operations that are staged for review
- All changes appear in the **Execution Plan panel** (bottom-right)
- Review diffs side-by-side before applying
- Remove unwanted operations
- Execute all approved changes with one click

**How to use Plan Mode:**

1. Click "Immediate" → "Plan Mode" toggle in header
2. Ask AI to make changes (e.g., "Refactor the auth system")
3. AI proposes operations → they appear in Execution Plan panel
4. Review diffs and operations
5. Click **"Execute Plan"** button in panel
6. All changes applied together + AI continues

The Execution Plan panel appears automatically when the AI proposes file changes in Plan Mode.

- Full undo support for the entire batch

Toggle between modes using the button in the chat header.

## Security

Tandem is built with security and privacy as core principles:

- **🔐 API keys**: Encrypted with AES-256-GCM in SecureKeyStore, never stored in plaintext
- **📁 File access**: Scoped to user-selected directories only - zero-trust model
- **🌐 Network**: Only connects to localhost (sidecar) + user-configured LLM endpoints
- **🚫 No telemetry**: Zero analytics, zero tracking, zero call home
- **✅ Code-signed releases**: All installers are signed for security (Windows, macOS)
- **🔒 Sandboxed**: Tauri security model with CSP and permission system
- **💾 Local-first**: All data stays on your machine unless sent to your LLM provider

**Denied by default:**

- `.env` files and environment variables
- `.pem`, `.key` files
- SSH keys (`.ssh/*`)
- Secrets folders
- Password databases

See [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md) for our complete security model and threat analysis.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

```bash
# Run lints
pnpm lint

# Run tests
pnpm test
cargo test

# Format code
pnpm format
cargo fmt
```

## Project Structure

```
tandem/
├── src/                    # React frontend
│   ├── components/         # UI components
│   ├── hooks/              # React hooks
│   └── lib/                # Utilities
├── src-tauri/              # Rust backend
│   ├── src/                # Rust source
│   ├── capabilities/       # Permission config
│   └── binaries/           # Sidecar (gitignored)
├── scripts/                # Build scripts
└── docs/                   # Documentation
```

## Roadmap

- [x] **Phase 1: Security Foundation** - Encrypted vault, permission system
- [x] **Phase 2: Sidecar Integration** - OpenCode agent runtime
- [x] **Phase 3: Glass UI** - Modern, polished interface
- [x] **Phase 4: BYOK Provider Routing** - Multi-provider support
- [x] **Phase 5: Agent Capabilities** - Multi-mode agents, execution planning
- [x] **Phase 6: Project Management** - Multi-workspace support
- [x] **Phase 7: Advanced Presentations** - PPTX export engine, theme mapping, explicit positioning
- [x] **Phase 8: Brand Evolution** - Rubik 900 typography, polished boot sequence
- [x] **Phase 9: Memory & Context** - Vector database integration (`sqlite-vec`)
- [x] **Phase 10: Skills System** - Importable agent skills and custom instructions
- [ ] **Phase 11: Browser Integration** - Web content access
- [ ] **Phase 12: Team Features** - Collaboration tools
- [ ] **Phase 13: Mobile Companion** - iOS/Android apps

See [docs/todo_specialists.md](docs/todo_specialists.md) for ideas on specialized AI assistants for non-technical users.

## Why Tandem?

For developers and teams who want:

- **Control**: Your data, your keys, your rules
- **Flexibility**: Any LLM provider, any model
- **Security**: Encrypted storage, sandboxed execution, zero telemetry
- **Transparency**: Open source, auditable code

For a deeper dive into Tandem's philosophy and how it compares to other tools, see our [Marketing Guide](docs/marketing.md).

## Support This Project

If Tandem saves you time or helps you keep your data private while using AI, consider [sponsoring development](https://github.com/sponsors/frumu-ai). Your support helps with:

- Cross-platform packaging and code signing
- Security hardening and privacy features
- Quality-of-life improvements and bug fixes
- Documentation and examples

[❤️ Become a Sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/frumu-ai)

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) - Use it however you want.

## Acknowledgments

- [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com) for the Cowork inspiration
- [Tauri](https://tauri.app) for the secure desktop framework
- [OpenCode](https://opencode.ai/) for the awesome opensource cli
- The open source community

---

**Tandem** - Your local-first AI coworker.

---

_Note: This codebase communicates with the OpenCode sidecar binary for AI agent capabilities and routes to various LLM providers (OpenRouter, Anthropic, OpenAI, Ollama, or custom APIs). All communication stays local except for LLM provider API calls._
